# Fire Them

Every business is ran differently, especially when compared across industries.  The tech industry, however, seems to have a common culture of young, empowered, responsible people eager to build something with their own hands.  To see the fruits of their labor.  To accomplish as a team.  Not for personal glory, though they're known by their good fruit, but for learning & growing as a *team*.  There's comrade there.  And hubris.

## Contrast

However, as companies grow, even in the tech industry, structure becomes more important.  And with structure, titles almost (*almost*) become a necessity for reflecting this structure, though titles alone do not create it.  And with titles comes greed, arrogance, power (though typically *assumed* power).

## Reflection

In my professional career, I have both witnessed and have colleagues who have noticed a similar, troubling trend: the original culture that fostered empowerment, collective success, and freedom is slowly muted by politics, vies for power, and egotism.

## Solution

**Fire Them**.

## The Test

There's a simple litmus test that productive, contributing members of a team have in varying degrees: *altruism*.

When the primary motivation for an individual regarding how they behave towards others, teams & projects is for self-gain, **fire them.**

When another individual or team is building primarily for the benefit of others, **revere them**.

## Conclusion

A group of individuals should all strive for the same goal for *the same fundamental reason*, and that is for the benefit of others.  Too often, superficials like titles, hierarchy, and meetings falsely give many the illusion of worth beyond what's deserved, and leads to an attitude that poisons the morale, self-esteem, and altruistic motivation of others.

## Aside

Luckily, I've found a nice spot doing development at [CMN](http://cmn.com/) in Houston, TX that successfully keeps politics & egos at bay.

How?  We hire with the intent to trust, empower & build up individuals & teams to meet their personal potential for the benefit of others.

I'm quite proud to be a part of it.

-@ericclemmons
